>> Brian Holt: So
what we're gonna do now is we're going to
make some helper utility functions.
And it's gonna be annoying to try and
interpret north, east, south,
west, and have those string
checks all over our code.
It would be really cool if there was a
function that I could just pass in north,
and it would just say go up one,
right, in terms of numbers.
So what I'm gonna do is,
I'm gonna make a const getModifier.
It's gonna take in some key.
And this key is going to return, again,
an x,y pair of where I should go.
Now, I'm gonna write this in
a really compressed ternary.
But you can totally, we can even just
do it in terms of, this is fine.
>> Brian Holt: So,
if key triple equals north,
then return [0, 1].
>> Brian Holt: If key triple equals south,
then return [0,
-1].
If key triple equals,
you can make these l is, as well.
It doesn't particularly matter,
because whenever you call return,
it just ends the function.
So either way, I'm just lazy,
so I just do it this way.
But you can do it however you want.
So if it's east, it's gonna go positive 1.
>> Brian Holt: I have to return that.
And finally, just return.
Cuz these are the only options, so
you don't have to really check for west.
>> Brian Holt: But you could do that
as well if you wanted to, okay?
So now I have this function.
Whenever I call it, I'm gonna get
the proper modifier to go up or down.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then the other thing I wanna do is,
because I have to worry a lot
about the opposite, right?
Because if I go north,
I'm gonna tear down a wall there right?
But it's also good to know for
the other one,
I have to tear down the other wall, right?
So that's what I'm gonna
do here is the getOpposite.
So, const getOpposite,
it's gonna again take in a key.
This could be a key pair value as well.
And again, the function could have
been a key value pair as well.
I just like doing things
in terms of functions.
So if key, in fact, what
we can do here is just copy this same
logic cuz it's the same sort of logic.
Paste it in here, but
instead of that we can
just put south, north, west, east, right?
So now this is a really easy thing.
I just call getOpposite, and I instantly
know what the other opposite direction is.
It just makes it a lot easier
to deal with all these strings.
I can deal with numbers and
assume that they're valid numbers,
rather than trying to deal
with strings everywhere.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
this is a recursive function.
You might have been tipped off in
recursive backtracking, I don't know.
If not, you might have a problem.
Just kidding.
>> Brian Holt: So I'm gonna write
a function called nextNode, right?
It's just gonna process
the nextNode in this.
And I'm gonna call it with xStart,
I can spell, yStart, and maze.
I don't know why I chose
to flip the argument order.
It doesn't make any sense,
but that's what I did.
So we're going with it,
const nextNode = (x, y,
maze), okay?
The current node that I'm working
on is going to be, const,
>> Brian Holt: const node = maze[y][x].
Right, that's the current node that
we're going to be operating on.
The first thing that we're going to do
is we're gonna say node.visited = true,
right?
Cuz we're on the node,
we're processing it at the moment.
Then, we're gonna do randomizeDirection.
Which again, is just gonna be an array
of those strings of directions to go.
So I'm gonna do that, and I'm gonna do
a forEach that's gonna be a direction.
>> Brian Holt: So
I'm gonna do const [xMod,
yMod] = getModifier,
of the direction that I'm going, right?
So that's why I got this x modifier.
So this is called destructuring, right?
So I know at the 0 element,
I have the x, and at the 1 element,
I have the y modifier.
So I'm just pulling those out and
into variables called that, right.
It's a brand new ES 6,
ES 2015 functionality.
>> Brian Holt: So here,
I'm gonna have a long if statement.
So if, we'll put this on multiple lines,
cuz I think it works a little bit better.
if maze[y + yMod], so
you're trying to make sure that
you're not going off of the grid, right?
>> Brian Holt: So
you're trying to make sure that you're
not going off in the y direction.
You also need to make sure that
you don't go off in the y + yMod.
>> Brian Holt: And oops, x + xMod.
So this is making sure that you
don't have a null accessory, right?
Because if I go off in the y direction,
there's gonna be no array there to check,
right?
So you need to check that
first the y is valid.
But then you need to check that the y and
the x are valid.
And then you need to check to make
sure that they're not visited, right?
So not visited, maze[y + yMod][x + xMod].
You could've totally done this
with something like Lodash.
I just wanted to code it out so
you can see what's going on.
.visited, right, so if it exists and
has not been visited,
that's what this if statement is saying.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, then you're
gonna say node[direction] = false.
And then you wanna say maze,
at the next place you're going,
yMod, x + xMod.
So that's gonna be a new node, right?
This particular thing that we're
operating on is a new node.
And then we want to set
the opposite direction to be false.
So if I went north here,
I want the south wall of the one
above it to be false as well.
So that's where we're gonna use
the getOpposite function here to be
false as well.
And this will create the burrow, right?
It'll tear down both walls.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then here
is where our recursive call comes.
So, nextNode(x + xMod,
y + yMod, maze).
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
and then just down here
I have return false here.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, it doesn't matter.
You can return void as well, either/or.
And eventually you'll
end up with this maze.
>> Brian Holt: That will, that'll work.
The reason why this works is because
you're just always operating on
maze, right?
So whatever happens to maze,
it still should work.
So let's give that a shot, see if it runs.
>> Brian Holt: And it works.
So if you wanna see if
the giant one works,
>> Brian Holt: Give that a shot.
>> Brian Holt: You'll see that
the big maze works too, and
all the units tests passed.
>> Brian Holt: Pretty cool, right?
We generated that,
we wrote the code that generates this.
To me, I don't know if I get
too self impressed sometimes.
But I think it's really cool that we
can write code that generates something
like that.
I don't know.
>> Brian Holt: Anyway.
>> Speaker 2: I think it's cool
that you can write unit tests for
something random and have them pass.
>> Brian Holt: Right, yeah, you just have
able to provide some sort of deterministic
seed value, right, which is what
those randomized things said.
So be it'd kind of a specific unit test.
I don't know if they would
be the best ones, but
this would be something really ideal for
something like just snapshot tests, right?
That given this input,
it gives you this output.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: And
it would be a lot easier to write
than when I wrote it here for you.
But, yeah, totally, it is really cool.
How do we feel about this?
Conceptually, do we follow
what happened here?
>> Brian Holt: Cool, I will say that this
used to be a question that Google asked on
their interviews.
I don't know if they still ask it.
They probably still do.
Which probably means I'm gonna get
a lawsuit by the time I go home.
That's fine, I don't care.
But a lot of these questions kind of like
to tie all these things in together,
which I think is also useful for
you to know.